Subject:
 
A FAX Ingestion Solution with Deep Learning for Financial Institutions
 
 
1.introduction
 
Fax has played an important role in business world to share files remotely since the introduction of the first commercialized version of modern fax machines in 1964 by Xerox Corporation. After we entered 21st century, 
people may have an intuitive impression that FAX usage is reduced due to increasing competition from Internet-based alternatives like emails, but the reality is it is as important to business as it ever was, if not more. According to an 2015 report[], there are 46.3 million Fax machines in the world, who sent 16 billion faxes a year. That means a big financial and environmental cost. Nevertheless, according to IDC report 2017[], 82% of survey respondents said fax usage increased of the past year, and they expect it to continue growing by another 25% over the next two years. Multiple reasons involved make reducing Fax usage a challenge.
1. regulation and government standards allow and encourage faxing. Technically an e-signature might be enough for somebody, but the legality of an e-signature can't be intuitively recognized and accepted. Many people just don't want to take the risk. 
2. many believe fax is more secure than email. Technically a secure email can also save you from malware and ransomware but it is much expensive than a fax machine. 
3. fax can provide a complete trail including confirmations of document receipt. This provides extra strengthen for communication resiliency.
With these factors, fax still has a massive user base and becomes too prevalent to walk away. Financial industry probably is one of the few most heavy fax users as its strictly regulated nature. In financial industry, fax ingestion usually involves 3 steps: fax classification, signature verification and data extraction. The whole process is very manual and error-prone. Most of time it involves hard copies printed out, which engages extra overhead in document retention, disposal and archiving as well. Data representation and layout variability across faxes make it extremely challenging to find a solution to validate data integrity and transform data into easy to manage knowledge. Besides all these challenges, there are other challenges preventing improvement of fax file processing automation level:
(1) fax image quality could vary widely for different reasons. Sometimes it is a "refaxed" version which reduced the quality, sometimes the fax machine itself may run out of ink;
(2) unstructured fax content requires more efforts to extract useful information distributed in it;
(3) handwritings on fax files require technologies like OCR and NLP to either verify its integrity or understand its semantics. Examples include handwritten signatures and comments on faxes;
 
In this paper, we focus on an end to end solution for financial fax file ingestion to improve overall operation efficiency with less human intervention with above challenges in mind. At its core, it has trainable machine learning models fitting different steps in fax ingestion. These models are integrated with fax processing system via a set of RESTFUL APIs. A microservice framework is designed for scalability consideration. Both online and offline trainings are supported via a managed sample set and correctional user feedbacks.
 
The rest of this paper is structured as follows: Section 2 introduces state-of-art fax ingestion solutions. In section 3, we present the overall design of the solution and its components. Section 4 discusses in specific how deep learning is employed towards an accurate and efficient signature verification, with experiment proofs. Section 5 discusses in details how content ingestion and data extractions are done with experiment proofs. In section 6, we deploy our solution for a real life financial institution to resolve its fax processing challenges. Specific performance tuning is done for it and incremental learning is designed for a continuously evolving model. Last but not the least, in section 7, we discuss open questions w.r.t research and possible next steps for this solution. 
 
 
 
2. Related Works 
 
The problem of data extraction from image documents has drawn attention over decades \cite{}[19], and is where most traditional fax ingestion solutions fall into. Generally, it involves two types of tasks, text recognition and document parsing. With the application of deep neural networks, OCR engines such as Tesseract \cite{}[27] have achieved good performance in documents with simple textual layout and good scan quality. Jaderberg et al. \cite{}[10] firstly employ convolutional neural networks to extract the feature the texts and train end-to-end learnable recognition models. Following this work, several advanced approaches were proposed. Broadly speaking, these approaches can be categorized into two types: to process text detection and recognition separately \cite{}[2, 9, 18, 24, 30], or to learn text detection and recognition jointly such as \cite{}[3, 13, 17]. Besides, there are some works concentrating on extracting document data directly into structured formats \cite{}[4, 5, 12, 21]. However, such works usually needs accurate textual information and require expertise and rules from user, limiting their flexibility on data extraction from images.
 
Mots existing works focus more on converting programmatic documents (i.e., PDF) or images into text, leaving the task of extracting structured data a lower priority. That's why there is no widely adopted fax ingestion solution in financial industry yet. With all challenges mentioned above in mind, we try to cut into this problem from a different angle by spotting only data of most interests such like signatures, tabular data (because it has highest information intensity) in faxes first, and weight their semantics more over formats. This requires a robust and accurate object detection model, where a few methods have been developed \cite{}[6, 14, 23]. We choose Faster R-CNN [23] to detect signatures and Light-Head R-CNN [14] to capture tabular data respectively. For signature verification, we regard it as an image classification problem rather than character recognition problem. Many approaches have been proposed \cite{}[15, 16, 22, 31] under the context of large scale image classification and recognition. Signature verification has strict requirement on accuracy level so angular softmax \cite{}[15] is picked by us to make classification decision boundary more separated and stringent.
